Hi guys, I promise you this. Stay with me, we're going to take some notes and then after notes we can take a walk deal. Okay, as long as you do not go on, you know, a little walkout on your own and that we all come back as a large group and that we are quiet and respectful of the whole. Okay. It's a lot of me talk today, going over information. There are a couple of short video clips that I'm also going to be showing you guys. One of which is from the US Holocaust. Smithsonian Museum has anyone ever gone there? You guys would say it's Holocaust Museum in BC. Nope, if you ever make it to Washington, to see if you get there, I would highly recommend. And then it is a good one. So let's break this down, okay? We're just starting here. There's no area where you're going to reflect on anything and just want you to fill in the plug is back. OK. What do you say? No, it's like a little while. The plug is back. That is what we need. No longer. Sorry. [INAUDIBLE] I feel that. Could be green to move on. Sorry for the question. You guys are going to drum up today unless you're actively taking notes on it. Okay, so we know that this modern conflict originated in the 20th century, but roots of the conflict, which certainly involve competing historical claims to the same stretch of lands goes back thousands of years. Okay, and you guys, I wanna remind you that I am not standing up here requesting or like just saying that you pick a side in this conflict. I'm saying that both sides, rightfully so, feel that they have a right to this land. Why? Because over time, this has been their homeland. Okay, so it's wild to be teaching this in 2024. I remember learning about it, think about this continent is gonna finally like this along the edge. No, it is just a constant continue, continue, continue and cycle. And it all dates back to this. All right, when we're talking about Jewish roots in the area, they get in between 1,800 and 1,500 BCE. So this BCE sample, you learn this before the primary error is the way of saying it without any religious connotation. BC and BC are referring to the same type of areas. AD and CE commoner are also referring to it, just saying it without any religious context. We know that this is when the Hebrew people migrated into Canaan, was heard of that place before. Maybe not in the school study, but maybe we've heard of it. That is now modern day Israel. All right, 1000 BC, their descendants. I'm talking about the Hebrew people, descendants. They formally established what became known as the Kingdom of Israel, making Jerusalem capital. And Jerusalem, there's a lot of controversy around this particular city. Because there are four main groups that reside there and we'll talk more about this in the coming days. And it is deeply divided and there's a lot of controversy over who should have control over it. And it's pretty wild to go there and I go to the different parts of it. It's extremely different. So this kingdom of Israel soon split into two kingdoms. And again, we're going back to some ancient civilizations here. They might sound familiar with you. It was frequently under the control of foreign conquerors. Think the Assyrians heard of them, The Babylonians in Hammurabi. The Persians underneath that is the Greeks. And ultimately the Romans. I'm curious. [inaudible] All right guys, so again talking ancient civilizations, all right? And I saw quite a few nods that you learned about the Roman Empire. Perhaps in middle school, right? You know that the Romans were out to establish a worldwide empire, world empire. Despite these repeated conquest by all of these different ancient civilization and groups, the Jews retained their separate identity, largely in parts likely due to their religious beliefs. So this picture here is showing you the breakdown of the two kingdoms of Israel. Jews were at our monotheists. Okay, so we're talking about that. They'll even one God. If you are monotheistic, you worship one God. If you are polytheistic, you worship multiple gods and goddesses, like the introvert's worth, the ancient Greeks. Their neighbors all around them were polytheists. So they worship multiple gods. That's set them apart. Polytheists, so they worshiped multiple gods, that set them apart. [ ] Okay, so clearly this is not the Jews apart, and it's still in this idea that the territory of Israel was their promised land. Who's heard this referred to as the promised plan? Yep, okay. [ Inaudible ] Okay. The Jewish majority ended when the Roman Empire expelled the Jewish population. The Romans came in, kicked the Jews out, and the Qistamat of Israel following a failed revolt against the Romans. I'm talking about the Jews. So that was in 135 CE for the next almost 2,000 years. And again, guys, we are going through a ton of history. That is a lot to do in a matter of days, right, in a matter of like a unit. The majority of the Jews lived in, and you've seen this word before, scattered diaspora. Scattered ethnic communities outside of their homeland. So spread throughout. Mostly I'm talking about in Europe in the Middle East. So this art here is a depiction of actual, you know, the Jews do force out of their homeland and being spread around the continent of Europe in the Middle East. Are we good at it on our issues? Sorry. [INAUDIBLE] [INAUDIBLE] The Romans came in and they renamed this land, [INAUDIBLE] And was inhabited by small groups of Jews gradually returning. So over time, over these 1800 years, right? Although Jews were living, you know, outside of their homeland, across here, of across the Middle East, small numbers of them were gradually returning to this area, to the land known as Palaszina. At my seventh century CE, that is when Palestine came under the control of Arabs, who introduced into the region the Arabic language and this religion of Islam. Pause for just a second. I know you can turn the pages, you would like them before we find to continue with your notes. My question is this, Can anyone just briefly explain whatever first you want to obtain errands? No matter what I do. What is it? Okay, what do you mean by that? Okay, yes. Okay, yes. How draft? They're both the nine Arabians. They're all. They're all. They're all. Yes. What brings them together? They're sorry. They're language. Okay. This is an ethnic group that are Arabic-shaking people and you'll find Arabs. I'm not saying that there is, you know, Arabs are from one single country. It's predominantly around like the Middle East and medical language, right? You see Arabic? Fine. Fine, okay. What do you see? Barsey, that's what I thought. Okay, Barsey, a little bit of Arabic and English, I guess. All right, a Jewish minority, all right. Here's what I want you guys to be clear on. There's speculation if this was anywhere from 8%. I put 10% because I just want to round up in the, you know, I don't know, just to make sure 10% of the population remained from 7th century to the mid 20th century. 10% Jewish minority. it wasn't really involved really much conflict at this time so the majority of talking about of the inhabitants here in this area in the land called I'm almost there for all three. [inaudible] One more left. Oh my gosh. [inaudible] I do love the crossword, but more so tough. May I be one? What are these things? Say it. Judaism. Okay. And these are the three monotheistic religions that really are hardly constituted in this area or at least originated in this area. So most Palestinians are Muslims but there are also a significant number of Palestinian Christians. Jews, Christians, and Muslims live together relatively peacefully during the century that Palestine was part of the Ottoman Empire. So I'm talking about the, you know, 1500s all the way up until the end of World War I. When the Ottoman Empire was a thing, these three religions for the most part coexisted. Pretty how many of them. There weren't major issues. That changed after World War I. That changed after the influence of who. I think there's a lot of different people who definitely pointed the finger out up here saying, "You can see that more white, you can do it." The British Empire. So this situation has changed over the course of the last century. And you see what is going on for the day, all of this time back to what happened in the end of World War I. As beyond, but I'm saying World War I was a big time ago. Let's take a break and show this. All right, so we talked about this last week as well. We're talking about nationalism, but the struggle between Jews and Palestinians developed. I wrote up here as a product of modern nationalism here, okay, in the Middle East during the 19th century. This is when we saw a rise of nationalism across, you know, all of these different countries, rising nationalism also had major repercussions on the Jewish diasporas. You have all of these small pockets of Jewish people living in these new countries for them in Europe. Those countries feel this strong sense of pride for their own country, and you have these new beats, these outsiders coming in there. And they're also conflicted, okay? Yes, this is my new homeland kind of, right? But it doesn't exactly align with my cultural, you know, aspects of history. So on one sense, or in one sense, the Jews had an opportunity, okay? They had an opportunity in these new countries of theirs, but they also felt this insane pressure to assimilate. Oh, I now live in the country of Germany. I feel like I need to give up some of my cultural identity so that I can develop this strong sense of national and business new country in this new homeland. And so as they became members of the newly emerging, you know, nations in which they lived. So they felt this pressure, as you can imagine. So this gave both advantages. If you think about it, there's advantages in that you have a homeland, you have this, you know, new country, you have this new citizenship and this new identity opportunity, but it also required to sort of give up some of their identity. And you can see why that would maybe contribute, okay, to this rise of anti-Semitism. And some of the propaganda that comes out of this era, I'm talking about around World War I, certainly World War II, that is heavily targeting the Jews in a very anti-traumatic way. It's powerful, right? And it is not just, I think a lot of times people just say, oh, this is like a German, no, no, no, no, we're talking about across the continent of Europe. So nationalism also in the flames of anti-Semitism. What is anti-Semitism in a nutshell? How did you drive it? What is it? Sorry? [INAUDIBLE] Yeah, discrimination or targeted threat of Jewish people. And they were seen as foreigners. And so what happened is that this was really hindering or delaying the development of any sort of unity in these countries. (mumbles) Okay, as we watch this, right, it is talking about, let me just make sure we're at that point. Yes, so again, you guys, this is from the US Holocaust Memorial Museum. Again, I would highly recommend if you're ever in DC, all of the Sony Museum are free and DC is really, really good. They have a lot of different clips that they put together that you can view. Their online platform is really solid too. This isn't just talking about like Jews leading up or in World War I type, it talks about the rise of power of Hitler. So it does talk in reference to World War Two, which we are probably all familiar with. The COVID-19 pandemic upturned the world,